A0: Ramping Up
============================

Learning in a large class setting can make getting to know each other more challenging than smaller in-person classes. So to facilitate our engagement with one another, your first assignment will be to introduce yourself in Slack and complete the ramp up quiz. 

## Introduce yourself on Slack

We have created discussion streams in the class Slack workspace. So before our second in-person class on Tuesday October. 3rd, you must join Slack using the sign up link provided on the course syllabus in Canvas. Once you have joined, complete the following tasks:

1. Join the discussion channel that matches the discussion section where you are registered.
2. Take a selfie and make it your avatar (roster photos are often outdated and rarely help us identify you!). The avatar you set should be of you and clearly identifiable.
3. Introduce yourself in the #introductions channel. Share some fun and interesting facts about yourself with the class. Feel free to share as much or as little as you like. However, at the very least, let everyone know your preferred name and pronouns and why you are interested in this course.

Once you have posted your introduction, take a screenshot, and upload it to the a0 assignment submission page on Canvas to receive credit.

## Take the Ramp Up Quiz

There is a short quiz available on the Canvas course page that ensures you are aware of some of the core policies for the course. You must get all questions correct to receive credit, but may take the quiz as many times as you like.

[Ramp Up Quiz](https://canvas.eee.uci.edu/courses/60927/quizzes/310183)

This assignment will be open until the end of the third week of class. If not completed by the closing date, you will not be able to receive credit.

`````{admonition} Attention
:class: warning
You must complete this assignment to pass the class!
`````
